# Player states ################################################################

The player state, that you can obtain either with the
[`getPlayerState`](./index.md#meth-getPlayerState) method or through the
[`playerStateChange`](./player_events.md#events-playerStateChange)
[player event](./player_events.md), is a central part of our API: it is from
this value that you will know:
  - when a new content finished loading
  - when the content is paused to build buffer
  - when the content is ended
  - as a generality, in what "state" is the player currently

As such, it is important this concept is understood when developping with the
rx-player, which is exactly the point of this page.



## List of possible states #####################################################

Today the player can have one of these 9 possible states:

  - `STOPPED`
  - `LOADING`
  - `LOADED`
  - `PLAYING`
  - `PAUSED`
  - `BUFFERING`
  - `SEEKING`
  - `ENDED`
  - `RELOADING`


### The STOPPED state ##########################################################

`STOPPED` is the default state of the player. It indicates that no content is
playing.

To simplify state exploitation, `STOPPED` is also emitted as a transition state
when loading a new content while another one was currently loaded (or loading).
That way, you can just listen to the `STOPPED` state to know when the current
content is not loaded anymore.

When the player encounters an [error](./errors.md), it will also stop and switch
to the `STOPPED` state.


### The LOADING state ##########################################################

The `LOADING` state indicates that a new content is currently loading.
It appears only after the `STOPPED` state.

That means that the player is currently downloading enough of the content to be
able to play it.

While this state is active, most of the content-related APIs (like
`setAudioTrack`) are not available. You have to wait for the `LOADED` state for
that.


### The LOADED state ###########################################################

`LOADED` appears only after a `LOADING` state, and indicates that the current
content can now be played.

From this point onward, most of the content-related APIs (like `setAudioTrack`)
are now available.

If the `autoPlay` [loadVideo option](./loadVideo_options.md) has been set to
true, the state will then switch to `PLAYING` directly. Else, the player will
usually be paused and stay in the `LOADED` state (there is some edge cases, see
the "Possible state transitions" chapter for more informations).


### The PLAYING state ##########################################################

Indicates that the player is currently playing the content.


### The PAUSED state ##########################################################

Indicates that the player is currently paused in the content.


### The BUFFERING state ########################################################

The content is paused because it needs to build buffer.

The player will not play until it gets out of this state.


### The SEEKING state ########################################################

The content is paused because it needs to build buffer after seeking in the
content (this can be seen as a special `BUFFERING` case).

The player will not play until it gets out of this state.


### The ENDED state ############################################################

The player reached the end of the content.

If the `stopAtEnd` [player option](./player_options.md) has been set to
`true` or not set, the player will immediately stop the content. In that case,
the `ENDED` state can be considered like the `STOPPED` state - in terms of what
you can do.

Else, it should now be paused at the last frame if a video content is available
at this time and this state acts like what you can expect from HTML5 playback:

  - when seeking when the content is ended, you will be paused (even if you
    were playing before)

  - after calling `play`, you will play back from the beginning


### The RELOADING state ########################################################

This state indicates that the player needs to "re-load" then content.

This can happen for different reasons:

  - When you switch the video track for another one, when the previous one was
    currently decoding.

  - When you update manually the audio and video bitrate through respectively
    the ``setAudioBitrate`` and ``setVideoBitrate`` APIs
    (Only if you set the ``manualBitrateSwitchingMode`` loadVideo option to
    ``"direct"``).

In those cases, we need to stop and reload the content on the browser-side, due
to browser limitation.

While this state is active, multiple player API are unavailable:
  - you cannot play or pause
  - you cannot seek
  - you cannot obtain the position or duration
  - you cannot get or switch the available video, text or audio tracks.
  - you cannot get or switch the available video or audio bitrates.

This is why we sometime recommend to manage this state as if it was the
`LOADING` state (where those APIs - and other - are also not available).

However, the player won't go to the `LOADED` state after `RELOADING`, you will
instead know that it had finished reloading simply when it goes out of this
state (see the "Possible state transitions" chapter for more informations).


## Possible state transitions ##################################################

The player goes from one state to another during runtime but those changes does
not happen at random. There is actually possible state transitions (like from
`STOPPED` to `LOADING`) and impossible ones (like from `LOADING` to `SEEKING`).

We will list here every possible state transitions.
_Note that we can never have two times the same state consecutively._

From `STOPPED`:

  - `LOADING`: a new content begin to load


From `LOADING`:

  - `LOADED`: the loading content was loaded succesfully and can now be played
    (most of the content-related APIs can also be used from this point)

  - `STOPPED`: Either:
      - You stopped the current through the [stop](./index.md#meth-stop) method.
      - You are loading a new content.
      - An error happened which made it impossible to load the content.
        The corresponding [error](./errors.md) can be found either through the
        [`getError` method](./index.md#meth-getError) method or through the
        [`playerStateChange`](./player_events.md#events-playerStateChange)
        [player event](./player_events.md).


From `LOADED`:

  - `PLAYING`: The content started to play.

  - `SEEKING`: A user seeked in the content.

  - `ENDED`: You are at the end of the content.
    Calling [`play`](./index.md#meth-play) will play back from the beginning.

  - `RELOADING`: The content needs to be reloaded.

  - `STOPPED`: Either:
      - You stopped the current through the [stop](./index.md#meth-stop) method.
      - You are loading a new content.
      - An error happened which made it impossible to play the content.
        The corresponding [error](./errors.md) can be found either through the
        [`getError` method](./index.md#meth-getError) method or through the
        [`playerStateChange`](./player_events.md#events-playerStateChange)
        [player event](./player_events.md).


From `PLAYING`:

  - `PAUSED`: The content is paused.

  - `SEEKING`: A user seeked in the content.

  - `BUFFERING`: The player needs to pause to download content.

  - `ENDED`: You are at the end of the content.
    Calling [`play`](./index.md#meth-play) will play back from the beginning.

  - `RELOADING`: The content needs to be reloaded.

  - `STOPPED`: Either:
      - You stopped the current through the [stop](./index.md#meth-stop) method.
      - You are loading a new content.
      - An error happened which made it impossible to play the content.
        The corresponding [error](./errors.md) can be found either through the
        [`getError` method](./index.md#meth-getError) method or through the
        [`playerStateChange`](./player_events.md#events-playerStateChange)
        [player event](./player_events.md).


From `PAUSED`:

  - `PLAYING`: The content plays (is un-paused).

  - `SEEKING`: A user seeked in the content.

  - `BUFFERING`: The player needs to pause to download content.

  - `ENDED`: You are at the end of the content.
    Calling [`play`](./index.md#meth-play) will play back from the beginning.

  - `RELOADING`: The content needs to be reloaded.

  - `STOPPED`: Either:
      - You stopped the current through the [stop](./index.md#meth-stop) method.
      - You are loading a new content.
      - An error happened which made it impossible to play the content.
        The corresponding [error](./errors.md) can be found either through the
        [`getError` method](./index.md#meth-getError) method or through the
        [`playerStateChange`](./player_events.md#events-playerStateChange)
        [player event](./player_events.md).


From `BUFFERING`:

  - `PLAYING`: The content plays (and finished buffering)

  - `PAUSED`: The content is paused (and finished buffering)

  - `ENDED`: You are at the end of the content.
    Calling [`play`](./index.md#meth-play) will play back from the beginning.

  - `RELOADING`: The content needs to be reloaded.

  - `STOPPED`: Either:
      - You stopped the current through the [stop](./index.md#meth-stop) method.
      - You are loading a new content.
      - An error happened which made it impossible to play the content.
        The corresponding [error](./errors.md) can be found either through the
        [`getError` method](./index.md#meth-getError) method or through the
        [`playerStateChange`](./player_events.md#events-playerStateChange)
        [player event](./player_events.md).


From `SEEKING`:

  - `PLAYING`: The content plays (and finished to seek)

  - `PAUSED`: The content is paused (and finished to seek)

  - `ENDED`: You are at the end of the content.
    Calling [`play`](./index.md#meth-play) will play back from the beginning.

  - `RELOADING`: The content needs to be reloaded.

  - `STOPPED`: Either:
      - You stopped the current through the [stop](./index.md#meth-stop) method.
      - You are loading a new content.
      - An error happened which made it impossible to play the content.
        The corresponding [error](./errors.md) can be found either through the
        [`getError` method](./index.md#meth-getError) method or through the
        [`playerStateChange`](./player_events.md#events-playerStateChange)
        [player event](./player_events.md).


From `ENDED` if the `stopAtEnd` [player option](./player_options.md) has been
set to `true` or not set:

  - `STOPPED`: Only state transition possible here. Happens if either:
      - You stopped the current through the [stop](./index.md#meth-stop) method.
      - You are loading a new content.


From `ENDED` if the `stopAtEnd` [player option](./player_options.md) has been
set to `false`:

  - `PLAYING`: The `play` method was called.
    The content plays back from the beginning.

  - `PAUSED`: A user seeked into a part of the content already-downloaded.
    The content is paused after the seek, regardless of if you were paused
    before reaching the `ENDED` state.

  - `SEEKING`: A user seeked in the content.

  - `RELOADING`: The content needs to be reloaded.

  - `STOPPED`: Either:
      - You stopped the current through the [stop](./index.md#meth-stop) method.
      - You are loading a new content.
      - An error happened which made it impossible to play the content.
        The corresponding [error](./errors.md) can be found either through the
        [`getError` method](./index.md#meth-getError) method or through the
        [`playerStateChange`](./player_events.md#events-playerStateChange)
        [player event](./player_events.md).


From `RELOADING`:

  - `PLAYING`: The content finished to reload and was not paused before
    reloading.

  - `PAUSED`: The content finished to reload and was paused before
    reloading.

  - `ENDED`: The content finished to reload and you are at the end of the
    content.
    Calling [`play`](./index.md#meth-play) will play back from the beginning.

  - `STOPPED`: Either:
      - You stopped the current through the [stop](./index.md#meth-stop) method.
      - You are loading a new content.
      - An error happened which made it impossible to reload the content.
        The corresponding [error](./errors.md) can be found either through the
        [`getError` method](./index.md#meth-getError) method or through the
        [`playerStateChange`](./player_events.md#events-playerStateChange)
        [player event](./player_events.md).
