# Migration from v3: RxPlayer events

RxPlayer events can be listened to thanks to the `addEventListener` method of the
RxPlayer.

Many of them have changed in the v4.0.0. They are all listed here.

## `playerStateChange`

Two player states have been updated:

- The `"FREEZING"` state has been added to the possible states sent through the
  `playerStateChange` event.

  This new state, which is sent when playback does not advance despite the fact that the
  right conditions for it are there, is described in the [overview](./Overview.md).

  In many case, you might want to handle it like a `"BUFFERING"` state.

- The `RELOADING` player state can now happen at any time if it allows to unlock playback.

  Previously, it could only be sent if specific options have been used.

### `audioBitrateChange` / `videoBitrateChange`

Both the `audioBitrateChange` and `videoBitrateChange` events have been removed.

They can however completely be replaced by respectively the more powerful
[`audioRepresentationChange`](../../api/Player_Events.md#audiorepresentationchange) and
[`videoRepresentationChange`](../../api/Player_Events.md#videorepresentationchange)
events.

Both new events do not communicate directly the bitrate, but the `Representation` which
each may contain a `bitrate` property:

```js
// What was previously written
rxPlayer.addEventListener("videoBitrateChange", (bitrate) => {
  if (bitrate === -1) {
    console.log("video bitrate unknown or no video Representation playing");
  } else {
    console.log("new video bitrate:", bitrate);
  }
});

// Can now be written as
rxPlayer.addEventListener("videoRepresentationChange", (representation) => {
  if (representation === null) {
    console.log("no video Representation playing");
  } else if (representation.bitrate === undefined) {
    console.log("video bitrate unknown");
  } else {
    console.log("new video bitrate:", representation.bitrate);
  }
});
```

### `availableAudioBitratesChange` / `availableVideoBitratesChange`

The `availableAudioBitratesChange` and `availableVideoBitratesChange` API have been
removed like most bitrate-oriented API.

If you want to know when the list of audio and video bitrates for the current Period
changes, you can listen to respectively when the current audio track changes through the
[`audioTrackChange`](../../api/Player_Events.md#audiotrackchange) event and when the
current video track changes through the
[`videoTrackChange`](../../api/Player_Events.md#videotrackchange) event.

There's a last potential situation for the bitrates changing, which is when the track
doesn't change but the list of bitrate does. For example this may happen when some
qualities in the current video or audio track are found to be undecipherable.

Sadly, there's no way for now to be notified when this last event happens. If you need
this, please open an issue.

### `decipherabilityUpdate`

The `decipherabilityUpdate` event has been removed with no replacement.

Indeed, it was unused as far as we know and exposed too much of the RxPlayer internals.

If you need this, please open an issue.

### `positionUpdate`

The `maximumBufferTime` property from `positionUpdate` events has been renamed
`maximumPosition`, to align with the other APIs.

### `periodChange`

The [`periodChange`](../../api/Player_Events.md#periodchange) is still present but its
payload has been reduced to its core properties. See its documentation for more
information.

### `fullscreenChange`

The deprecated `fullscreenChange` event has been removed.

Fullscreen functionalities now have to be completely handled by the applications, which
most likely already did just that anyway.

### `nativeTextTracksChange`

The deprecated `nativeTextTracksChange` event has been removed.

This event was initially added for legacy reasons and should not be relied on anymore.

### `bitrateEstimationChange`

The `bitrateEstimationChange` event has been removed.

It has been removed because it was poorly understood (it's not always close to the
expected bandwidth), because it actually has a very complex relationship with the chosen
quality and because its structure prevented us to make some evolutions to the RxPlayer
internals.

### `imageTrackUpdate`

All image related API, like the `imageTrackUpdate` event, have been removed.

If you need to parse BIF file, you can use the
[`parseBifThumbnails`](../../api/Tools/parseBifThumbnails.md) tool instead.

### `volumeChange`

Previously, this event only communicated about an audio volume as a number between `0`
(silent) and `1` (loudest audio volume), with the `mute` RxPlayer method actually just
setting that volume to `0` until the next `unMute` call.

Now the `mute` RxPlayer method has been updated and this event accordingly send as a
payload two properties:

- `volume` (`number`): The currently set audio volume from `0` to `1`, like before.

- `muted` (`boolean`): If `true`, the media element is currently muted (e.g. through the
  `mute` RxPlayer method), meaning that audio will be silent even if a volume higher than
  `0` is set. You can remove the `muted` status by calling the `unMute` RxPlayer method.
